@@@1

The staff at both TB hospitals and Indian hospitals were largely non-Indigenous people, that is the doctors and nurses. Many of the support staff were Indigenous people, this is, the cooks and cleaners, orderlies and aides. So we have a situation in Indian hospitals and TB "sans" whereby those with the most decision making power tend to be non-Indigenous people. Indian hospitals and sans were institutions that were conceived of, designed by, and run by non-Indigenous people. This creates a situation where those who have the most decisions making power might be very ill informed about the people they were working with and the places where they were working.

Many of the doctors and nurses who left records, have talked about their interest in the history, of the area where they were working, but without an intimate knowledge about Indigenous people, the history of Canada, and the places where they worked from the perspective of the Indigenous people who lived there. Many of them fell back on common assumptions about Indigenous people that were prevalent in Canadian society, that would have been prevalent in the media and in the post secondary institutions where they did their training.

One of those assumptions was that Indigenous people were to blame for their own ill health. Another assumption was that full recovery or full heath for Indigenous people was not a matter of biomedical treatment, but about cultural, economic, and social assimilation.

@@@2

A lot of our people, my Mom included, they were diagnosed with TB per se. A lot of them were sent to this place. It's called Nanimo Indian Hospital. My Mom went in in 47, I was born in July. So, when I was two weeks old, almost towards the end of July, she went in. I think she was only 20 and she was in there for a good 15 years. She was in her thirties by the time she came out. So she lost a good part of her youth and her regular life. My Mom went in first, and then my Dad and then myself. I was in there I was in there from two years old to four years old. The only recollection I can have was, remember those old poseys they use to use. I don't know if they still have them. You know, when they restrain you. Anyway, I can remember being tied down to the bed so tight I couldn't move. All I could do was look up at the ceilings and I can remember hearing the others. The other children crying.

There's very few of our Elders left that talk about Nanaimo. My mom didn't. Even herself, she wanted to bury it; it was such a horrendous experience that they didn't talk about it. My uncles, there was about nine people that were coming for, they were survivors and it was from one Elder asking me if, if I could start up a group since Residential School meetings were set. They wanted something set up for Naniamo. So there was a number of Elders coming to my place, and we'd talk about the things that happened, experiments, everything, the medication that were done on them. It was very sad.

My uncle Sandy from Saanich, he was in there too. He can name a lot of the drugs that were given to him. He was beaten up a lot for asking.

Kuper Island Residential School. The two ran in conjunction with each other. When I talk about experiments, like the ECT treatments, to get our children into submission, the ones that wouldn't knuckle under to the priests and nuns at Kuper, they were sent to Nanaimo. There's about three of them that can recall that have talked about when they used to stick up for the little kids, so that they would decide then to send them to Nanaimo. Either through drugs or through ECT (mostly through ECT); the shock treatments, electric shock treatments, but these were done elsewhere like on the privates of the boys, you know, down below, and the women, the young girls; they would attach it to the nipples.

ECT treatments were done to them and it wiped out their memory, and then they came under the submission of everybody that was in control you know.




@@@3

The stories…you know…betrayal, stealing land, warfare, starvation, disease…on the one hand non-Indigenous people need to know that is actually what happened. And I can certainly speak from experience when I first heard stories like that I didn’t believe them. I just did not believe them. And it's taken me a long time to,,, and a lot of research actually… to even begin to comprehend how this could have happened. So I think there is a way that non-Indigenous people need help in comprehending what colonialism is, how it could happen…the nitty-gritty of how it happens. It’s not just certain bad leaders, or certain bigoted leaders; it’s a process that involves everybody. And I think that is what is missing from a lot of analysis of colonialism by non-Indigenous people. It's not just the government, it's not just the Church, it's also people moving out, squatting on land or just buying land that has been taken or… it's just thousands and millions of decisions and choices and that’s in the past and that’s today.


@@@4

General Canadians are also standing on lands and are in many regards the beneficiaries of this attack on Indigenous peoples and the intentional suppression of Indigenous rights and cultures in this country. So it is an entire blanket if you will that has been laid across this country. One that a lot of people don’t fully understand and largely remain unconscious to.

I challenge everybody to make it a priority to listen to a survivor and to take the time to listen with an open mind and an open heart and open feeling to what is being said. And to abandon, for a second if possible, the belief that it wasn’t as bad as what they’re telling us. Because what I can say first hand from having travelled the country is that it wasn’t just one survivor that we heard the bad story from, it wasn’t just two survivors, it was thousands of survivors. And we have to, in society, suspend disbelief that it hasn’t been as bad as it was and is. We have to come to that conclusion, through openness, that is the only way that we can get there, that - wow, we have got a major problem on our hands. And the fact that we as Canada, have been labelled with the moniker of genocide should be fundamentally destabilizing to who we imagine ourselves to be. We have to see our country in a new light and we have to see our history in a new light.



@@@5

Look at mainstream television and movies and try to think of one Indigenous woman that is portrayed in a positive way, or actually in there at all. It is very rare. If there is, the first thing that comes to mind is Pocahontas and even Peter Pan where you have the young Indian princess. That’s what we have to look at. That is who my role models are?

@@@6
The professor was talking about First Nations people, and saying they are more intuitive and they understand things. That might be true for some people, but in the way that it was framed I felt very tokenized. I felt very fairy–tailish, like I wasn’t a real person. I felt like he was speaking as if no one in the room could have been Indigenous. Of course there is all the power dynamics because he is a professor and I’m a student, he is a man and I am a woman and he is white and I am Métis.

@@@7 
I went to school where there were not many Native students in the school. I remember being called dirty because my skin was darker than all the other students. I was believing that I was actually dirty, to where I actually went home and tried scrubbing the dirt off of me. Those experiences with racism and just being ashmed of being who I was and just wanting to become normal, or what I thought was normal at the time.

